It is interesting that we analyze
the relationship between sectors
or characteristics of a sector
or of a segment of a sector with
the margins and I will start
by putting examples, we will
see sectors in which the margins
are very low, because for example
airlines, especially low cost
airlines or wholesalers
or distributors that provide
basically a logistical value
in any sector or agricultural
producers, for example these
are that have very low margins
and we go to with higher margins,
because we can think of premium
competitors within almost
any sector, for example
in Ferrari, or we will think
of a pharmaceutical laboratory,
in this case Phispharma
that we will then analyze.
You have seen several examples,
we will analyze a little of
the sectors with high margins
and low margins from different
perspectives, I think you will understand
the concept well, in principle
the volume of sales is usually
greater in the sectors with lower
margins, because as you said the
agricultural producing companies,
since they are usually companies,
any company that bills many
million, but of course they
earn very little money with
each, if we go to sectors
with higher margins, because
usually the bills are
lower.
Think about competitive advantage,
how do you compete?
When your competitive advantage
is based on differentiation,
remember Michael Porter’
s generic strategies, this usually
allows you to have a margin,
have larger, larger margins,
however companies with low
margins are usually companies
as we saw with very
large sales volumes that
seek economics of scale and
usually seek cost leadership.
Why is?
Because price sensitivity is much
higher in this type of companies,
they choose you almost by
price, but when price sensitivity
is low, because your competitive
advantage is differentiation,
etc., there you can have
much higher margins.
Another perspective of which
we can, since we can analyze
it, although it is very simple,
is value added, usually when
a company is able to provide
a lot of value added, that allows
you to have higher margins.
Let us look at concrete examples.
The first thing we will analyze is
the pharmaceutical sector and we
will analyze three companies within
the supply chain.
We started with a laboratory,
in this case we have taken the
annual accounts of Faes Pharma,
think what the laboratory
does, research, patents, new
products, much value
in the chain.
We have the wholesalers, who
in this case is Cofares, the leader
in Spain, who does what is, has
a huge logistical structure,
with thousands of employees,
and what he does is, well, because
to supply the pharmacies of
the products of the laboratories.
And finally we have the pharmacies,
they serve the customer, etc.,
you already understand the concept
of a pharmacy.
And what we’re going to do now is,
let’s analyze the margins of the
three types of the three companies.
Look, Faes Pharma bills 214 million
and Cofares 2,700, but already when
we go down to the gross margin,
here we are seeing directly the effect
of what we were talking about
before.
The laboratory has a 70% gross margin
and Cofares has a 7%, in the case
of the pharmacy it is an average
of 30%.
This answers many questions,
who is bringing more value
within the supply chain?
We continue to go down and see
for example the wholesaler,
remember how the business is, the
wholesaler mainly provides a value
that is purely logistical
and has a 1.5% and the pharmacy
a 12.
Please note that the data is very representative.
Faes Pharma with a turnover of 214
million has a avoidance of 47,
while the wholesale Cofares
to have a avoidance of 41 has to
bill 2,700 and if we continue
to fall, well, because the
effect is more dramatic.
In the case of Faes Pharma it has
a profit of 30 million meters and
the net margin, fix them, is 15%,
is spectacular.
In the case of Cofares, the margin
is very low and in the end what it
does is to win 11 million
with a turnover of 2.700 million,
a giant structure.
We will compare the two companies
that provide services to other
B2B companies, providing professional
services of different
types.
On the one hand we have Oliver Wyman
who is a strategic consultant, in this
case we have analyzed, we have
taken out the accounts of Oliver
Wyman in Spain and what he does
is basically provide outsourcing
services with staff.
Let’s compare the margins.
In the case of the strategic
consultancy has sales in Spain
of 58 million and Eulen has
1.300 million.
This, if we go down,
is very representative.
Oliver Wyman has 124 employees
and Eulen has almost 82,000
and Oliver Wyman’s evita is 4.
5 million and Eulen’s 72,
but if we go to the margin, as
we see the margin is much
larger in the case of Oliver
Wyman.
Why is?
These are services of great
added value.
A strategic consultant, obviously,
someone who for now charges a lot
but who participates in very important
processes of another company,
is not comparable in terms
of added value to outsourcing
services of staff
of all kinds.
To finish, we will make a comparison
that is very representative
of what we are saying.
Let’s compare Facebook with Walmart,
which are two of the world’
s billionaire and leading
companies.
Let’s compare sales, the number
of employees and profit and
margin.
Let’s start with sales.
Facebook has sales of 40
billion and Walmart is
more than 10 times larger.
Facebook has 25,000 employees
and Walmart has 2 million.
A real barbarism.
But here when we get to the
profit is when the surprises begin.
Facebook’s profits are three times
greater than those of Walmart.
We see this in the net.
Facebook’s share is 37 and a
half percent.
It is a real barbarism.
It is a company that believes that it
creates spectacular added value.
It has huge barriers to entry.
That has thousands and thousands and
thousands of loyal business customers
spending a folder monthly on
Facebook.
Find out what the margin is.
This is a very important
indicator of the health of the business.
In contrast, Walmart, which
is a $5 billion-earned company,
i.e. a giant company, has a margin
of 1% because it really
competes for that.
Absolutely lead something
in cost, seeking scale
economy, etc.
But the added value it brings
is much lower.
And as we said, when your value
added is low, when customers
choose you by price, etc., at
the end of the day your margins
are lower.